---
title: API Ecosystem
author: root4me
date: 07/31/2016
desc: API ecosystem and API economy is real
---


Over a decade ago, I remember having a conversation with a friend of mine about the importance of brushing up his knowledge on web services. At that time he was making his living by writing code (and still does). He looked at me weird and responded with something to the effect of "Why would a system  want to expose their data to another system ?" . To his defense; up till then, he had been working at a huge Insurance Company and his day-to-day job translated to making business applications that handles their internal work-flow. I went on to make my argument that the "age of monolithic applications is over". As luck would have it, life did a practical joke on me and the company i was working for got bought over by another fish that had accumulated a number of products that does not work with each other. I was not much better off working for a company that make products that get sold as Enterprise solutions except that, being a product vendor; we had already come across ...

### Then came SaaS
Software as service is what the company I was working for did during last decade. We did not call it SaaS at first because the buzz was not around yet. Our method was pretty standard for that age and time. Product was hosted at servers we manage at data center and customers would pay us a monthly fee for accessing the application. It was pretty much a customized version of the product per customer....

### Then came cloud computing
Towards mid of last decade, the term cloud computing had started gaining traction. No one was really sure what it means like most marketing talk, but it was supposed to be the next big thing we need to go after just like how web 2.0 was supposed to be the thing we needed to go after couple of years before that. Enterprise product companies are a strange place to be at especially once it has started a downward spiral after few years of growth. And then it happened one day. The all knowing General manager asked me if we can call ourself a Cloud Computing Company. It somehow made perfect sense in her mind.
We have rented some rack space, put up a few physical and virtual servers to make our application available to our customers. That is the "cloud", isn't it . Those servers must be doing some "computing" to render the application, right ? Besides, there are some web services in those servers; you say. I first gave a blank look, then a surprised look followed by a smirk. That ought to cover it.


Case study





      
