---
title: How to boot beagle bone black from micro SD card
author: root4me
date: 07/26/2015
desc: boot beagle bone black from micro sd card. set up debian on BBB
---

 I did quite a lot of read up in the net about how to boot from SD. Only thing consistent about it is the instructon that you need to plug in power while pressing the "user boot" button. Information is very inconsiatnt about when to release the button and what happens after that. Will I be on the network or not ? What happen if i keep that button pressed for too long ? 
I read one article that states that if all the LEDs are lit then 'it is too late' . Does that mean the BeagleBoneBlack is going to brick ! After a lot of reading, multiple trial and errors (none that bricked it), here is what what worked for me.

### Goal
*  Boot up beagle bone black from a micro SD card that is larger than 2 GB (I need that space)
*  After booting up, I should still be able to ssh into the device with out having to connect the device via eathernet connection
*  Run debian while I am at it since beaglebone seem to have dropped Angstrom and chosen debian as the distro it ships on newer boards (not surprised that they move away from Angstrom. It will be easier for the type of projects I want to do compared to Angstrom as well)

### Components
*  Powered USB Hub
  *  Most of the articles out there will ask you to power the device using 5V power adapter since board will need conistant power during this process that can not be acheved by plugging in directly to PC via USb cable. I followed the advice and tried to connect a 5V power adapter, but turns out it was more trouble that what it is worth. The power pin on my beagleboneblack does not fit perfectly with the power adapter. I am not sure if it is a manufacturing defect with my specifc device or if all A5C models have the same issue. Regardless, I ended up with an unreliable power supply with that approach.
  *  So, I connected the device to a USB hub connected to my laptop
*  16 GB micro SD
  *  Samsung Evo Class 10 micro SDHC. you can get this for under $10 from amazon. Class 10 cards (especially this samsung one) are pretty fast and having a fast card will tremendously improve the performance. Yes, I was using an old not so fast 4 GB micro SD card during my trial and error phase before switching to this one and it felt like a breath of fresh air.
* BegleBoneBlack of cource . In my case Rev A5C  


#### Downloading the debian Image

Best place to get a debian image for BeagleBoneBlack is from (wait for it ...) the download page from beaglebone.org 
[Latest Firmware Images] (http://www.beagleboard.org/latest-images "Latest firmware") . 
Look for 'Recommended debian images' section in that page. Not so much of a surprise, you think ! . Well; I did a  bit of tinkering before I settled with this one.
If you want to let your inner tinkerer loose, you can navigate to [elinux site] (http://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_Debian "debian on bbb") . Mother load of information about what we are about to do.

To make it all nice and cozy for when i need to do this again using another laptop; I noted down the following script to downlaod the debian image (deb 7.8)

	wget https://rcn-ee.com/rootfs/bb.org/release/2015-03-01/lxde-4gb/bone-debian-7.8-lxde-4gb-armhf-2015-03-01-4gb.img.xz 
	md5sum bone-debian-7.8-lxde-4gb-armhf-2015-03-01-4gb.img.xz
	echo "md5sum must be : c848627722b7a5f7bc89791cc8949e3b"

The URL parameter to  ```wget``` is just the recommended debian download link from beagleboard.org page

#### Make a bootable SD card with debian image  

All you need to do for making a booable SD is to clone the image you downloaded into the SD card   

**Uncompress the debian image**  
	
	unxz bone-debian-7.8-lxde-4gb-armhf-2015-03-01-4gb.img.xz -v

_ Identify the device name of SD card_  

Run ``` lsblk ``` and review the device names  

	lsblk  

Plug the SD card into PC and run ``` lsblk ``` again. The new device that show up in the output is the device name you need.  

**Clone the image to SD**  

Use clone disk utility to clone the image to SD. Replace sdX with the SD card identified in the output from lsblk in the following statement eg: sdb  

	sudo dd if=./bone-debian-7.8-lxde-4gb-armhf-2015-03-01-4gb.img of=/dev/sdX  

This is going to take a while. You might as well take a break (have tea , coffee, lunch or even staring into the monitor clicking on links to please your internet addiction..)
Once the cloning is complete, you have a fully functional SD card that can be used to boot up BeagleBoneBlack

#### Boot up the device  

 Press down on the user boot button on BeagleBoneBlack and plug in the device to laptop using USB cable. The device will enter the boot up sequence.  

Observe the LEDs at the eathernet port. At some point in the boot up sequence, that LED will blink. Release user booth button once that happens. 
It will take a few more seconds for the boot up to finish and you will notice a lot of activity with the four user LEDs below the eathernet port.

